Blockhouse Quantitative Developer 
Work Trial Task Description: Reconstructing MBP-10 data from MBO data 
 
Background 
With the objective of optimizing execution quality for orders submitted by a client, the state of 
the limit order book is often used as an input to models. With knowledge of how many orders 
are at a certain price, traders can gauge the liquidity of the stock. And with knowledge of how 
the order book changes across time, traders can potentially learn the microstructures of the 
asset for short term alpha following. 
However, oftentimes the limit order book is not readily streamed by all exchanges. What is 
provided by the exchanges, is a stream of trade actions that takes place on the exchange. 
Traders ingest this stream of actions, such as “Trades”, “Fills”, “Cancellations” etc. and 
reconstruct their own running orderbook. 
Difficulty arises due to the sheer speed of actions being taken on the exchange for a given ticker. 
It is then important for the orderbook reconstruction to keep up with the incoming stream of 
actions in order to have the most accurate picture of market state at any given moment. 
 
Task 
Your task is to use C++ to compute the MBP-10 orderbook from a given set of MBO data.  
You will receive 2 .csv files: mbo.csv and mbp.csv that correspond to sample input and output 
(See following section for more precise description of data).  
Please format your output csv columns such that it aligns exactly with the sample mbp.csv  
We are expecting both the source files and the executable binary file in order to evaluate your 
code performance. We should be able to build your executable binary file with your source code 
using an included Makefile. Make sure that your code compiles. Afterwards, we should be able 
to run your executable by passing in the mbo.csv input data. 
Example usage: 
 ./reconstruction_<name> mbo.csv 
Please also provide a Readme.txt that explains the overall optimization steps taken and any 
special things to take note when running your code.  
Finally Upload your code to a private GitHub repo and attach the link in your submission. Make 
sure to share access with ‘markljwong’ and ‘Prsnna0’ 
 
IMPORTANT NOTES and CLARIFICATIONS:  
1.  Ignore the initial row as this is a “clear[R]” action to clear the orderbook 
a.  -> Assume we are starting the day with an empty orderbook 
2.  In the data (provided by Databento + more details below), both actions [T]rade and [F]ill 
do not affect the orderbook, only the [C]ancel action followed by it does. For our 
internal use, we prefer to combine these 3 actions in the MBO to a single T action in the 
MBP-10 output that does reflect in the orderbook. 
a.  Note: in the MBO, for a sequence of actions in the order T -> F -> C, the T will be 
incoming from the opposite side that is currently in the book. 
b.  For example: a T action may appear on the ASK side at 10 dollars. However, this 
level does not actually exist on the ASK side of the book. Because the trade has 
to be matched to an order in the book, the existing order is on the BID side of the 
book. We see that both F and C actions are on the ASK side 
c.  Therefore, we store the T action on the BID side as that is the side whose change 
is actually reflected in the book. 
3.  If the side of the row with action ‘T’ is ‘N’, we should not alter the orderbook. 
4.  You are not required to consider orders if they fall outside of the top 10 levels. For 
example, if an ‘Add’ order comes in outside the top ten levels, you may ignore them. 
a.  However: In the mbp.csv, you may have noticed actions outside of top 10 levels. 
This is because new 'Add' orders can come in the book at a price between, for 
example, depths 6 and 7, and push all depths 7, 8, 9, 10 down. As these orders 
are within top 10 levels, we must track them. But as a result we may experience 
the case where we store 11 depths due to the shift. 
b.  You will not be docked points for the specific way you handle this. We simply 
need to see the resulting top 10 levels of the book. You will find that any events 
at the 11th level do not reflect in the order book. 
 
Evaluation 
1.  Correctness 
2.  Speed 
3.  Coding style 
4.  Readme Insights 
5.  Unit Tests (optional) 
You will firstly be tested on correctness, as speed without correct output is not useful. However, 
given the high frequency nature of this computation, the critical component of this trial will be 
speed and space efficiency of the reconstruction. This is where overperformers will get the 
highest marks. Speed across all submissions will be evaluated using a consistent test bench. 
We will also look at your source code too and use that to evaluate code cleanliness and 
interpretability.  
And finally, your Readme will be reviewed to evaluate your thought process in writing 
performant code. If something didn’t work as great as you liked, feel free to add that here too! 
And consider what could have been better! Any limiting factors? Try to be concise, but we’d like 
to know your thought process! 
For extra points, you can include your own unit tests that you used to check for correctness and 
performance. 